# categ_esp
Repository with Spanish texts and frequency tables extracted from the first phase of the TRAIA project (characterization of Spanish economic texts). All the tables are in the Main branch. The Corpus text can be found in the branch traia24-corpus_categ_esp, which contains the 45 Spanish texts used for this study.

The purpose of this study is to collect a set of features that can contribute to the linguistic characterization of the institutional textual genre. The aim is to describe as exhaustively as possible the archetypal text to be obtained as a target text in this type of specialized translation. The tools used were Or-ange Data Mining© and Google Colab (Python code), and the data was ob-tained using the following processing mechanisms: word cloud, text pre-processing (cleaning, tokenization, normalization, lemmatization and PoS annotation). With these tools, lexical and grammatical frequencies, lexical and documentary embeddings, cosine distances, hierarchical clustering, and 20-component dimensionality reduction (t-SNE) were extracted.
As a result, a series of useful descriptive parameters have been obtained for the characterization of model texts for economic translation of institutional domains into Spain Spanish: lexical and terminological density, phraseo-logical and terminological lexicalizations, grammatical frequencies, and se-mantic maps. In conclusion, the study provides several quantifiable fea-tures that characterize the analyzed register and opens the way for further re-search to deepen these parameters and develop the research by searching for complementary parameters until a complete and exhaustive picture of the reference model in this genre is obtained. 

Full details of the study's process can be found in the forecoming paper presented in the NeTTT2024 congress.
